welcome everyone to this week's I
thought the sink reading it's August 12
2019 and it's the weekly deaf meeting
for the iCarly team
and today we plan to go over the specs
repo and go over the stuff and should we
start with this and then see if we have
in the end time for other things or
should be first two other things um why
don't we do a quick update and and then
the other stuff again I think this
meeting can go long as well I sent rod I
said you did a message to see because I
want to come on the name so yeah we can
just go a little later if we need to
okay the krupa token yeah all right so
yeah I start with myself so and this
week past week I did most of the time
most of the my time I spent on trace a
if s stuff because he I tried to
integrate IP LD the new iPad me version
with mayor stuff and they have a few
problems with acing await stuff but yeah
the two in fact the details on issues
and so on so yeah that's my quick update
I didn't do much else because there was
also publicly they last week so oh and
for next week there's another publicly
day on Thursday just to keep this in
mind okay and that's all for me
next one is Creek I think everything I
did was boring in a good way
most of Hannah's branches about
selectors are merged to master now and
they just as far as I know work so
that's awesome
I need up continue
to go deep on a performance rabbit hole
this week that was kind of spurred by
last week and I tried to fix a small
comment in one line of one piece of
documentation and trying to figure out
what was really going on there it took
me several days and so I wrote a really
long book about performance and
hopefully this is going to be useful
information in the future so anybody
else writing ago wants to learn about
how the GC feels about fades little egg
for you and a bunch of naming every
factors have landed so rod you might
have to apply said to any
work-in-progress you've got but it
should be easy
it's just textual naming change that's
about it thanks next one on my list I
have Caminos open great his rod okay so
more go learning focused on getting my
test fixture archive format thing
working so I've got my JavaScript and go
versions are done and published and yeah
you can pack in all sorts of arbitrary
blocks into a single file and store them
as test fixtures which is really nice so
confirm that it's working same data on
both I was fixing a serialization bug
you found in Dague PB I'm along the way
so that's poor requests 156 Volker and I
having conversation in there that's
jeaious tag PB that is and some minor
adventures in some browser testing stuff
that I won't bore you with because it's
tedious and horrible that's it all right
Michael do you have any update - Sierra
yeah bunch so most of last week was done
sort of organizing things and putting a
bunch of stuff together for a couple
different meetings one was this UNIX if
that's meaning that we did so there's no
a document it's been published in an
issue now
it lists like every feature that we've
talked about free mixes v2 and all the
links that I could find to prior
discussions and stuff like that and then
we've separated that into a couple
buckets of work items one is an update
to UNIX 51 so I'm an issue open right
now for a discussion that will turn into
a PR 2 the UNIX must be one spec to add
metadata and then I'll be taking the
sort of implementable today set of
things India 52 and turning that into an
ID tilde schema and that will be another
sort of spec rub on USB 2 and then also
expect this quarter all right a bunch of
stuff bunch of JavaScript code to turn
that schema into reusable API for you
next 52 as well other than that we had
the first project advisory committee
meeting today so tucked I updated sort
of a bunch of different stakeholders on
all the stuff definitely working on on
the current status but if the research
project and a lot of the projects that
people depend on got a lot of feedback
that will be really helpful for future
meetings including for all of y'all when
you have sort of broad questions or
stuff that you are struggling with if
you can service those to me I can
actually work them into questions and
things that that group can discuss and
then we can also get feedback from them
and as that grows to include external
stakeholders that'll be I think more
interesting because a lot of what we
work on doesn't get enough input from a
different stakeholders with different
Christian like let they like what kind
of questions so it was pretty general
like like what kind of questions would
they expect that we asked
so it's more like what are we struggling
with right now and then they may have
input or advice on that right so some of
the stuff that I surfaced was just you
know we we are constantly struggling
with how the best message things and
finding the right language to describe
things and even a line within each other
I talked a bit about some of the stuff
that rod has been doing to sort of
figure out like what are the how to
quantify the different sort of
performance cases in these multi block
data structures and then what levers we
can pull to manipulate them and because
I know that some of the people in that
call have thought about that for a while
as well so those are the things that I
said but there anything that we are
struggling with where we would really
benefit from external input I think we
can get from them yeah and yeah that's
that's pretty much it cert like a high
level update all right cool I guess
Steven doesn't have enough data every
week and so and do we have anything else
to discuss before we go over the specs
repo if not then so how should we do it
should someone share their screen and
then we yeah I've been thinking about
the fastest way to do this and I think
the fastest way is that if one of us all
do it I I will share my screen but
someone else should take notes on what
we want to actually do to each issue and
then we'll do them after the meeting so
that we're not like waiting on people to
type in the screencast so if somebody
else can take those detailed notes then
I can share my screen and we can sorry
I'll take notes but feel free to jump in
the doc and help out as well yeah yeah
all right okay so all right we have a
lot of specs that have already been
triaged into a tag called backlog
revenue don't think you should we choose
with the with some of the PRS perhaps
rather than you should use it just like
the issues are like sometimes like three
years old so it's not like well yeah I
think that we can maybe just decide to
close all of those like I don't I don't
see anything in the backlog that we
shouldn't that isn't just like a
conversation that we need for posterity
that isn't gonna have anything happen to
it until we create a new issue about it
does anybody disagree with that I
haven't really looked into those but
looking into the egg into the names it
looks pretty much like it yeah I thought
the aversion to yeah it's quite it's
quite difficult to even contextualize a
lot of these ones that are pre old I
think anything that like a stale bot
would have already closed we should just
go through and close so I think all of
the stuff that was tagged as backlog I
think that we can close for now and just
say like I'll write up a note about it
so basically 49 and earlier issues we
are closing let's just say that yes okay
those do to me okay now okay from there
do we want to start with issues or PRS I
would go with the pprs first because
like those are be like that's the more
important thing yes but yeah feel free
to disagree so yeah and go car implement
what even is this car this is the hub
index like this it's
content archive format but I there's
only one go there's no jobs get one and
I just did Zoop instead because I
decided that I didn't want to have to
write a new format in JavaScript that
wasn't compatible with anything so yeah
I think that we can quit that exists and
is used in in go but I just don't think
it's do we still have this card on mdhil
this thing is used in PowerPoint
actually I think yeah it's used for the
the Genesis block or something yeah yeah
there has been different thoughts and
like good yester we get better maybe
also shouldn't call carts like there's
some design discussions around this it
no not that one that one I think is you
know whatever so there long as my
questions around like seek ability and
search ability and random acts all these
things cars and also they can easy they
shimmer like I think that version is
well the first version was October sorry
literally leaves to tar file if the next
version hat was slightly more special
case and used protobufs I think no photo
Searcy working River yeah but yeah it's
good second they like it's complicated
and not that high priority must have
been deleted yeah yeah so I'm just
saying like so if the file is gone we
don't even have a place to put this
information right now yeah yeah okay so
in the notes close that one we may want
to have a different file for a car at
some point once it's maybe renamed this
car like it is called an ID like surely
belonging to the IPL the repository is
also a question I don't know it's
supposed to look like coding problem
yeah I supposed to be a Content address
bar archive that's the yellow so it's
like implementations exist and they're
moderately well specified for what they
are but they also haven't been super
ratified or like super
I don't think there's any reason to call
them special or unique or if the only
one right so it seems like something we
could put in a general bucket of links
to related interesting projects you
should check out maybe if you have time
yeah eventually we wanted a speck on
this and but then like we get we handle
those questions we also pressure on the
compression because actually you want to
compress different watts but different
like with different compression
functions and then you want it to be
able to like get rid of like say it's
like that all these good questions use
rabbit hole of insanity okay yeah yes so
it will be a new like there will be a
new PR or issue or whatever for when
everybody comes up cool okay so this
next one is appear to update selector
types and I think it's awesome doesn't
exist anymore
like it doesn't seem to be like like
this is totally outdated like this can
just because we can close and I I'm
going to assume that this the feedback
to the extent that it was turned into
anything actionable made it into one of
the other select respects that we have
oh yes yes there were a lot of selector
specs open at one point in time so I'm
not surprised that one was hanging so
close 104 basically I should do basic
specs for hampt this is the main hand
spec right still yeah we're still
working on okay hang on the why did
another one but this is the one that
sees perfectly currently we just I'm not
sure that's true I think there may
actually be a Delta between this spec
and what is currently in that
implementation I could be wrong but I
think I remember something higuan trash
okay so we probably don't want to have
to ham specs and we have another spec PR
open but we want to make sure that this
is entirely integrated into that right
oh yeah there's also pretty sure that
discussion done integrated but yeah
Newham spec doesn't that require like
all the composite types is something
good
no oh okay no no the Newham spec I mean
like there's an implementation on
composites but there's also like an
implementation that rod to do and just
in your prime right now it's the new
spec is not that different to what this
one is did they're very close so it's
yeah okay so I think we can I would add
a point there because this is being used
in practice and so we can't just like
say oh no using it because if I could do
is they can it is this something where
we should actually have both of them and
have some sort of a naming saying like
are we good switch not going to switch
that's a good point
we should use one but we shouldn't
because this is a discussion point
really we have to elicit say hey
facwidein we have this a thing over here
here's the spec also maybe converting
the current petition to this you think I
mean okay it's just sort of point of
process so they're they're possible for
deciding whether or not the switch to
the other one is is outside of like what
we necessarily do with the spec so they
made it like they're already so they're
very active in the other spec right now
they are talking about switching to it
they may switch to it they may not I
think they're probably actually will but
right so and I think the question is
like this either needs to go into some
kind of historical design document so we
need to just like change where it's I
mean I think the directory that's in
right now it doesn't even exist anymore
so that needs to get updated and then
you probably still want to keep it
around
what we could do is like what we saw I
did with the so when you come to the
graph sing a PRS I did the ability
archive them so we can easily talk about
how to archive it when we saw the graph
sync PR twist you can see what I did
with there basically decide I want to do
the same thing okay so I think the real
question is like okay if file coin did
not move to the new standard then we
might just want to move this spec into
there implement like the implementation
that they have so that they have the
spec there if it literally is like an in
use thing that is only used by this one
implementation that wouldn't make sense
to me
but if they do move then all we want to
do is like archive this the same way
that folk rock had the other one where
we preserve a lot of the discussion okay
Booker your tool that pulls all this
information out and does the whole
conversation and everything it can do
that with clothes to be ours too right
yes okay all right so what should close
with that what yes I created it today
because I wanted to preserve the graphs
and stuff and yeah yes so yes so yeah
and we will see with the graphs in PR so
I guess the H an item for this would be
we arc we archive it and the fight when
team can take it yeah I think I think
next step is to archive it into the
design history somewhere close this out
and then depending like sometime in the
future when they decide which one that
they're gonna be on we may end up
pulling this back out and maybe like
sending it to their repo so that they
have access to it in an easier format
okay all right cool
we don't have to ham specs open what's
great um grab sync response metadata is
this the one that you were talking about
poker versus another one no it's not the
one okay okay I'm not entirely sure why
Graff saying the stuff is in the I peel
the specs repo and I think it kind of
should stop being it is so it doesn't
belong right BFS either it like graphs
think a it's a type B of the syncing
protocol so like ecosystem rather than
anywhere near core though so but it's
still a lot think it's doesn't have
another people that's under the IP of
the org is that where it's at yeah yeah
so stay in that repo that's more
appropriate
you might be expecting that repo already
- oh yeah yeah I'm pretty sure that PR
is to document that's moved into that
people already not a hundred percent
sure but actually no no so there oh wait
no no no there's no way both there is so
there's a a graph seeing spec folder so
to go directly specs and there's specs
block layer graph sink okay um I just
feel like you but this might be fasting
people they go it's IVFs Pacific it's
not it's like it's a general purpose
protocol for syncing things honestly
also like this just as a this is a
practical point it's difficult to update
selector stuff is impacted by graphing
stuff in tandem if they're in different
repos it's just a little bit easier to
work on pretty firmly separated there's
the written
okay so this doesn't merge claiming me
more probably because of a move so look
at the file here pigheaded to make sure
that this is still relevant think she
probably already implemented it well
maybe or she behaved ascend it's not
necessary okay all right
yeah all right let's comment to that
effect so in the notes to say we need to
ask henna this is still a change that we
need to make to the active spec and if
so that we need to get it pointed at the
right file that stuff moved disrespect
for dag PB and that's when I would like
to go over like I plan to go over but I
haven't at the time so I so I would keep
the tag PB so the truth to open I think
and I my plan is to just say I go over
there yeah see what we do with it but
it's a big AHA sniffing okay so there's
no conflicts currently and I think
currently we have like no dag PB spec so
my preference is to merge this and then
to have a discussion about further
alterations to this a second one so you
need to decide which one's rumors is
conflicting they're conflicting day
people expect although oh there's
yes so if I tend to go over it and see
what like okay all right so Kim Volker
can you take on an action item to
actually rather than review these could
you just pull them into a single new
spec that contains the important parts
of both and then we can close these this
to my plan most basically doing well
like going over these and see what would
we do with it like I just do it so you
don't have a clue what like I doing
Oh what they about so I will just like
yeah go over them in what we do with it
so just yeah my ex item is to make sure
that something's happening
okay okay all right cool but that's just
the action to miss Booker we'll handle
it all right so we have this cardinality
spec it needs to move into the schema
layer does anybody have an objection to
that yes I would actually like to close
that one the concepts Terr or we should
move them all at once again okay so what
does you want you want to move all
concepts somewhere so that this was this
was I just wanted to try and make the
hierarchy a bit more obvious here and
and then but but Eric wants to pull it
back up again I just I just would like
these things to be located in a logical
place for the user to find them and Eric
wants to put them in a concepts
directory I want there to not be a
concepts directory because I'd like
these things to be organized nicely
because it's gonna just explode but it's
not a strong strongly felt opinion so I
just want better organization and we're
just wizzy with we compact to the number
of directories and now we've in the last
couple of months we've had three more
directories I think so yeah um I think
we could use another go at the
organization again because I share the
explosion fear but I also like in this
example concretely cardinality is
something that I want to talk about at
the data model layer for why the data
model is the shape it is and also yeah
just look just closer there's conflicts
the closer okay so I'm gonna close that
but I do want to have a synchronous
discussion right now about see the
organizational stuff because this won't
be the last back regarding that
can we move concepts into design so that
it's designed concepts next yeah okay
okay all right so action item move
concepts into the design it's very
confusing to have a thing called schema
layer and then a thing called schema
so we had another name for schema layer
what was it
advanced where I don't know
okay so let's not tackle that one
directly and zoom out to the general
rethinks of or topic instead and we hate
the layer cake right we've kind of come
to the yeah so I've got a bunch of like
random writings on this that are have
not landed anywhere organized so I want
to apologize for that but we had some
conversations about this scatter around
slack and IRC and who knows where else
and I think one pattern that emerged is
we have a bunch of stuff that has the
shape of starts from node and still ends
up being node like schemas are that they
start from data model nodes and then
they still present as nodes with more
rules but still like regular nodes with
most of the same behaviors as data model
just different constraints around them
and advanced data layout seem to also be
node to node just with more stuff in the
middle and then codecs are not that
codecs are something the heck else to
note and vice versa
so this might provide some hints about
the order in which we introduce some
things and it should be like should be
like should we discuss this right now so
because like I would rather think that
if we finally have like all the RPI
Oscars and HSN or whatever base we know
what will be really in the repository
and then we can decide to look at
everything and decide like how where to
put it because yeah I mean because we
are getting than the nicest one PR
because you break all the links so you
need to do it like yeah but everything
is much easy I agree that's why we're
cueing them all up and
right now right but um my remember I'm
remembering all of the different current
threads and issues in the PRS and a lot
of them are naming and related I know
that we talk so the layer cake is
confusing in terms of teaching people I
feel deep but it is still useful in
terms of organizing a lot of our stuff
one thing that I'm noticing here though
is it like from block layer and data
model layer it helps a lot with the
organizing to have those in a directory
for everything above that we effectively
have just been putting into the top
level so like schemas and selectors and
like we I think what we should do here
is just take everything that's in the
schema layer directory and move it up so
schemas obviously was already moved up
and this is just duplicate and confusing
and then data structures can just go to
the top level it is very like that is
self-explanatory and then I don't and
then none of these names are confusing
and I think I mostly agree except I'm
betting rods gonna say that's too many
things up to top levels it's the
explosion and but so I agree otherwise I
wonder if maybe it would work out to
take all of those things and put them in
a dry trip which I cannot imagine the
name but just everything that you could
not read about until after you have
finished reading about data that
directory right right I mean again like
right now the specs repo is where a lot
of people come when they're learning I
peeled D that is not where they should
go
once more people are learning I'd be
like this is like reading all the specs
is not like a great educational
experience eventually we want to have
like better documentation that like can
walk through these in a much better
linear order like starting to model for
instance I don't know if I rate the
likelihood of us maintaining a soft Docs
and a specs tree through at the same
time
wait yeah in the short term that's it
that's a task I'd really like to tackle
okay I did I did start a get book repo
called book with like an introductory
chapter in it that's half finished so if
anybody wants to continue to work on
that I will also work on it with you
real quick though in terms of directory
proliferation if you sum up everything
that I just said we're still down into
record from where we are now because
this only has one directory in it that
will go out schemas will get
consolidated we're getting we would get
rid of the schema layer directory and
concepts would move them to design so
we're still down the directory and I
think it's clear I'm gonna go with that
put an action and I'm done for me to do
that okay I think we're good there all
right um okay so I got him I got a
caption okay so somebody doing notes so
we're gonna collapse the schemas
directory and move concepts to resign us
that's a to high-level takeaways there
yeah we're gonna collapse schema layer
directory okay so this PR was open just
to talk about what it would take to get
rid of slashes and reserved key it is
not necessarily something that we should
do so I think that what we should do
with this is the same thing that we've
been doing with focus other scripts
which is to create an archive file and
put it in design history yeah okay cool
all right
good now the big hash map specs this is
it
rod can we please merge this and then
open new PRS handle there is the rest of
the discussion kit like I think that
it's it's in a state that is good enough
that like we should just use that as the
baseline for continuing improvement what
do you think rod you
show this there's just there's one major
outstanding item that I just haven't got
to encode which is removing the bit with
property in inferring it from the size
of the map by an array so I'd like to do
that and reflect it in the in the doc
but aside from that I think it's it's
pretty pretty good you have any issue
with doing that as a new PR games but
after I click this merge button alright
no no because this is also because
because interesting the last couple days
Eric's got one or two suggestions but
like I I'm like like just like it's open
for so long so just give different okay
[Laughter]
[Music]
okay this AMT spec so this I know that
you did some stuff to the hands back
this is a sparse array I'm not gonna
handle this boss array case I don't
particularly like it so our coin has a
use for this so Falcone's gonna need a
sparse array and this will serve that
purpose that in theory I think it's
gonna get unbalanced to quickly and
easily but it deserves to be specked out
and actually experimented on its own
okay alright interesting so I don't
believe there's any code for it but I
actually I don't know what Falcone is
using right now for this use case okay
so a couple things that need to happen
one of the bit should move into design
with an alternate with a name that has -
a since it's really early and there's no
implementation that we know of so it
just needs to like get pointed into the
directory and then since it's
experimental and there isn't imitation
yet we can just
Mergent once it's pointed at the right
file so so hang on we need to take we
need to put experimental at the top and
then version yeah i mean any any spec
especially when the different
implementation should have that anyway
and then it should move into we came up
with a whole scheme for this but yeah
it's like design slash AMT - a nd is
what it should be so sorry experimental
experimental going into design histories
all right into design / yeah thank you
design / yeah and all of them should be
should be appended with - a letter
so that alternatives can also be put in
the directory do we have documentation
about the naming scheme because I saw
the - during what there's a music okay
cool Toledo okay cool
when I did want a rename of composites I
added the docs for that okay vector I I
think it's pretty close i I don't know
if I don't think there's any I don't
think there's any outstanding stuff to
be honest - like this could be merged
unless unless anyone knows of any
disagreement but I mean I like it and it
works I'm not sure if you've heard like
if you and I can't remember if you
addressed all my and comments but I
guess you did I did you know I mean all
of them all the discussions have been
resolved except for one so I'm sure
those were definitely at some point
taken care of okay yeah that one I will
okay for me to review and and just get
it merged it's pretty it's it's pretty
much the same as what
jeremy has with sureiy so I don't think
it's controversial okay okay cool so
you'll take an action item to handle
this last comment here and then and then
merge yeah okay all right okay this is
so I think Eric your last comment here
with the you don't really know what to
do with this one yeah
this was the one PR we're linking is fun
I really did not think that this one was
gonna be even the tiniest fraction as
controversial as it was and I don't know
I still think it's probably actually
reasonable that I'll I'll just close
this this was way more controversial
than although merge after that to
capture the controversy that it's really
it's a is it a conflict of perspectives
about what IP LD can and should do or
was it there I think it's a couple
different things and I did try to
combine several things in this issue and
I think that was in retrospect just dumb
and I shouldn't have done it
like one of the things that loved me
that I was trying to address with this
one is that some of these statements
were like incredibly specific
implementation details to get hung up on
in a document but I feel as otherwise
almost entirely food like North Star
guiding vision statements and I like the
North Star guiding vision stuff and
that's what I'd like to focus this
document on being but I also combined
that with a bunch of other things that
were more in the details as well and so
that just made the whole thing much
harder to reason about what the
difference
to accomplish so so your options are to
scale it back well we just closed it and
I think it's close it and then split it
up into like two or three eyed I'm
thinking maybe add some editor to that
file which describes the North Star like
vision concept and then do one that
frankly I'm still just gonna flatly
remove the thing about relative links
where that's not well I think I think
this comment here I think we're kind of
hear about move rather than remove is is
right like a lot of these like a lot of
this stuff is like we should keep
capturing it somewhere but probably just
not this document all right and that's
what I want to do is particularly with
like CID plus path linking I think that
one totally deserves additional thought
and probably fits in somewhere someone
is this document because it's too
concrete for that North Star concept
just in terms of your process and what
you would like to do would you like to
close this now and then follow up later
or do you like to leave it open until
you have the follow-up open okay
yeah those are new new MP hours I just
did an hour ago so this is what I looked
a you can click on view file so that
it's the doctor's first view but the can
let me write down you perhaps if you
click on that dot dot dot right next to
view and you yeah okay so this is just
the spec as it was and then I scroll up
again a bit and then I say this a
comments on this PR so I say this was a
PR and then there's just basically a
dump of all the comments that people did
in nicely and the images are very nice
ok yeah that's great ok all right
just all the discussions okay I'm just
gonna merge this this isn't
controversial this is actually this is a
thing that happened so I don't think
that this happened
[Applause]
and similar I'm gonna do the same thing
with this one yeah it's just the the
other grossing spec from me and just
there also with all the discussions and
yeah I just want to be a real quote to
make sure that there's no obvious kind
of formatting issues if it's so good
having finely ground my graphing specs
in the history okay 55
I got a pee-pee pack resolution I guess
is is it is it ipfs versus versus I know
it's it's that like literally like the
properties in protobuf are not how we
don't actually use those properties like
in the pathing and the pad thing we we
like normalize out those links and just
put them as their name so I just needs
to get added to the bag PDS back or
anything so basically the action item is
to like also like when I go over the tag
TP stuff I also ate one okay yeah yeah
so yeah action item is is pullin issue
55 and then close it after you open yeah
primitives proposal this is out of date
I mean this all informed what went in
but this is like pretty old okay so
number 56 we should close and then so
for the next ones that we've been taking
their son just right that will close
them and then I'll go in and add the
comments later on while we're closing
the central typing coding information
[Music]
what was Oh
this was okay though so this was like me
before you all joined protocol ends and
this was yeah we had this idea like I
thought it was something completely
different so I guess I would just close
it like so that else zero probably
doesn't mean anything to any one of you
right I feel like we're important these
these notes have made that our way into
other documents okay that one also needs
to get closed out I think yeah long
string keys um Eric you have opinions
about this time string key is I think
that we've resolved non string keys in a
couple places right so I mean so kind
don't have them and it but advanced
layout to do I don't know if I would
actually firmly call this one resolved
in that definitely somebody is poking me
in the shins like this very weekend
being like why can't I X and I'm like
well I think it's somewhat agreed upon
the map kinda does not support this and
that we only support string key than
that kind just to make them more
implementable across different what
every Kudus picked out so what does
currently them it kind say you know
aspect I think I think we think it does
say that I think it does say that I
don't know if we have enough
documentation of why we are adamant
about that because and this is one of
those situations where we'll need it
because people will keep asking about
this one yeah yeah okay so I guess
there's an exonym that we need to write
that out in order to close this out
and so just looking at what we have
today I think that we as far as
implementations go map condom with the
chords string so if it's not unexpected
I need to be into that connected it
isn't in this big ok well we need to put
your pendants back then in advanced
layout if I'm recalling correctly you do
have to say what type the keys are when
you put them in do an advanced layout
drugs right I mean if you're just
thinking of schemas in general you there
is whenever you're doing lists or map so
you usually do them typed so like
there's a key type and a value type
rather the strength of writing with the
whole time in schema design is that if
that you can actually have different
kinds of boy let me try not to get
tongue-tied here you can use any type
you want
as the map key type and it can actually
be almost any kind you want at the type
level as long as the representation kind
is straight how does that how does that
work in practice good question like
let's say you have a struct and it has
two fields x and y mm-hmm and you want
to use that as a map key if the struct
representation is string join then you
can do it because that structural bit
serialized is like the value of x : the
value of y we would encode that in JSON
than anything else we can go space okay
so you can't just okay so you can't just
take an arbitrary type and you lose a
key you actually have to have some way
for it to turn into a string
representation yep and because that way
is determine is defined in terms of the
representation system in the schemas we
like it's
thing that we can enumerate we have
control of okay so that also need to be
documented and Mister is in any way like
if someone would want to have a map with
an on string key in IPL D somehow so is
there any like is there any way of doing
it like it doesn't have to be easy but
like what yeah I mean well he's he's a
concrete example I was saying in that
the in the amp'd spec discussion that I
think that a better way to handle sparse
arrays in the future would be to use
ordered maps and then use the integer
keys or ordered maps so that then when
we have a dust and an ordered map data
structure then it will be better at
balancing than an int would for
arbitrary spaz to race so you know in
there's AB is non string key for a map
and it would but it would behave like a
list it's just very sparse so you
wouldn't iterate over it in Li quite the
same way
and what would then perhaps be B so what
then what every implement like so let's
say you would implement with non string
keys would it be that it doesn't map to
to the data model to a kind but of
course you could so implement it as an
advanced layout no no no sevens fail
it's like what we call composite three I
don't want to open this discussion again
but so you could you could of course
have like in your own code you could
specify something and you can also
define a schema for it but it won't be
involved map to an to map time okay so
so rod you'll probably now under
and my issues around that this topic so
if I try to figure out how to implement
non string keys in the go stuff none of
the existing accessor methods that I
have around maps work and if we try to
implement sort of a union type in go
that would be either string or integer
and use it for these accessor methods as
their parameter or for the iterators or
anywhere else where this touches we
don't have zero cost Union abstractions
and go it's not rust go actually sucks I
don't know there's no way to do this
without making like boxing type
applications as we're used to from like
the bad old days we still have that
problem so this makes it really really
tricky because if we go all in on that
abstraction so that we can whimsical use
string organs it's going to have like
really fantastically often performance
penalties to something very very poor in
our system for a feature that I feel
like the rate of use is going to be
incredibly incredibly rare okay so
should we prep say so we define that
map's map kinds have only strings and we
specify it and then we can close the CPU
and in the future at one point if we
need it for whatever reason then we will
see what like how it fits in and it's
like how long non string keys fit in and
if we really need them or yeah we should
we should have a design document around
non string key basically and and it
should say everything that we just
talked about yeah I think I think it's
just like it's relatively easy to
imagine how an it implements this pretty
automatically with any string even if
it's like in this schema like
representation
system right at the moment you get into
another type you're looking at a custom
comparator for the most part except for
like what integers it's obvious but like
you're gonna need a custom comparator
for pretty much any other type and those
vary wildly between different
programming languages and formats so
it's it's just really hard to figure out
how how you would go about doing that so
you're off in like advanced layout
composite land the moment you want to do
this so it's not that we won't ever
support something like this in the
future it's like that's the layer that
it's gonna have to live that and we
aren't currently working at doing that
yeah yes so basically you can delete do
it like so that I pretty data model is
the least you can do pretty general
things like I don't like like on every
permutation but if you go into non
string keys you end up with it's so
specialized that yeah you probably don't
yeah yeah I can use easily other
limitations because it's so application
specific yeah I really okay so next if
you looks like it's basically the same
thing so for the action item 459 we
should close it out nicely can you show
you a screen again because I can't see
it anymore oh oh you know what as soon
as the screen goes to sleep for like a
second okay so 59 is documented searches
on that piece cool but isn't isn't then
like could be then it's a success the
other issue and keep the document one
open missing referring from the from
these from the one issue referring it to
the we just documented my video can be
on video yeah sure okay that's fine have
you however we want so which number was
the lone stream keys is yeah so we
should close 58 pointing at 59 and then
we should close to nine five dock
take that okay yeah that sounds great
yeah okay
the next one is support existing mime
types yeah I think that we can basically
close this um this was a discussion
basically about how to best do this but
it doesn't really belong here it
basically belongs in some of the next
best discussions so the closest no I
don't feel like it's actually and I took
these level things to worry about okay
down to one page spec refining specified
valid mother hang on tactical point
I dropped my tab open to the notes page
Ron are you still being diligent yes
okay I think yeah I hear both of these I
think sometimes and less you're just
chatting and I see with them to be
random so okay spec for finding spec
refining specified valid merkel path
segments and encoding it's a great idea
Eric okay so we we need a path spec like
we've we've tried to do this a few times
and it's gone nowhere what would how do
we think that we're gonna resolve this
given that it's very this seems like a
thing where this issue body I would flip
it over to a design history document is
like huge collection of links to
existing stuff was good you know and
after that I don't know I think in this
issue when I first wrote it this one's
from like last fall or summer even right
mm-hmm I I was trying to figure out
character encoding stuff and since then
I've tried to talk about this problem
with a couple of different people like
yeah there's something and someone like
not physically body-slammed me but like
the argumented equivalent of it and said
why like just literally why character
encoding why not just shut up and treat
it like bites because you cannot win
character encoding and I was unable to
answer that and then yeah well I mean
one reason is because correct me if I'm
wrong but path segments when they're
broken into a selector are encoded of
strings in that object representation
aren't they yeah but so you know so
image in those segments at least we need
to worry about it I mean maybe that just
belongs in the Select respect for how it
encodes those yeah I think the one thing
that we definitely need in the path spec
is to Center it around being a list of
segments and then after that my modern
take on it would be we should just say a
segment is a series of bytes it should
be utf-8 if not god help you but fine
okay yeah so all right coming back to
this um we'll close this by turning it
into a design history doc I think that
like on the to-do list somewhere is is a
path spec doc but it is it's more
perilous than I think anyone wants to
admit that it is it's not clear who the
audience is and who implements the path
back like that's that's the problem that
I have every time that I sit down to
work on it that's the issue because like
with if you're thinking about like Earl
specs the the person who gives you the
Earl is like a user who hands you a
string and the rules are about encoding
that into things that
don't lose a lot of precision this like
when we're talking about it it's very
unclear like who would be responsible
for encoding these and at what time and
we don't have like we're going to end up
with a lot of double encoding if we
don't define that before you're in
Quebec so so we need us we need it we
needed popped on a model down like yeah
we've been doing a bunch of work and
intuiting what paths should do I think
that the more that we do that the more
that we start to define where this might
exist and so it's not as bad as it seems
to not have a path that yet because we I
think that we actually are learning
where this goes the longer that we live
with what people do intuitively I think
about Dana modal is like yeah actually
it's basically totally apt we should
make a path SPECT that has a very pure
definition and then in order to address
things like how should this relate to
URLs we define mapping starting from the
pier like this issue is fascinating
because it's basically the conversation
we're having that about type of
information I like I like that top one
that particularly because there's this
argument about context saying that a
data is never context-free but no
actually really interesting discussion
are we aiming for context-free data or
data that is always tied to con some
context like that seems to be a hinge
for a lot of our disagreements about and
this type stuff yeah so this should
probably go and defend history though
yeah yeah if I remember this issue
there's a couple of other comments and
then it just stops and it's
yeah it does oh yeah I really like that
last guys coming that series of videos
he links to is dank okay cool let's go
to I feel the end compression yeah this
is a good one I think at this point we
need to archive this somewhere and then
I need to take the action item on sort
of compression next steps I think so
actually let me get people bearings on
this for quick at this point do you feel
like this just belongs in the transport
layer and then it's really not our
problem or if there's something that we
need and just a background because I
also there's someone on the issue and
something in is you might remember from
the difficult but that data Terran who
does em like factory
things with ipfs Anatoly and they're
they basically have small events and
sent them over to like all over the
place and they would really benefit from
and special compression so they
basically know they for example only
send certain values all the time so they
can use just a existing dictionary and
compress it very well which you can't do
on the transport layer because the
Olea doesn't have the knowledge the
application hands so therefore they
really would want three to compress it
really nicely so I suggested this in
Berlin but I think that that kind of
specialized use case to be handled with
its layouts just like encryption you
could build a advanced layout that
unpack s decompress both agree yes
Greece so it's not so it's not something
that would be like a course pack or
something if I probably would in
application so this is where our layer
model starts to break down a little bit
though and how we built a lot of these
extractions to be honest because this
doesn't work all that well without
burying codecs quite a bit and not just
you know treating things if somewhat
codec agnostic and just supporting a
data model because the blocks that
you're creating are probably just like
raw blocks in the linkage but then are
semantically interpreted some other way
by the by the composite engine I still
don't know about should like I don't see
why you couldn't take the trees selected
dictionary and still do that as a
transport everything is maybe even
control a transport layer inputs you'd
like you don't want to do like like you
transport several things over the
transport layer and only want to have
certain things but the point of the
discussion though is that maybe this is
not our problem right now like this is
an interesting interesting thing like
it's similar way to encryption is we
don't need this right now
but if but we want to make space that if
somebody wanted to do it then they could
come along and contribute something that
would do this and then yes so we are
case this one and I can also like be AI
will reach out to
pretty clear to see if perhaps even
wants to provide some explode creation
of human or something for it be good to
have more discussion about actual use
cases okay we still not explain what the
daggers in the readme okay we actually
have a good explainer in for the school
somewhere so we can we can link to that
I'll take this one on and yeah okay so
in the notes today Michael will quote
this one out clicking update they
actually wasn't aware that they open so
many issues on the repository okay this
one is actively being worked on by you
right Booker I'll make this one yes
actively is and if I finally find time
for it yeah yeah yeah but ya know it's
in your cube oh this is my favorite one
[Music]
well we like like stew so it just be
quick I would prefer so if we move
things around and already renaming
things I would be really able to have
lower case awnings
but I did that already I think
everything foundation is celebrities
okay well I'm closing it and then we we
will fix any remaining ones ago yeah
yeah where were we
links me too okay this goes back to that
discussion we were just having about
like a meeting that objective makes back
so I think maybe we actually leave this
open until we have that link document
yeah I think we're getting to the shower
ends now which is exciting so for that
link document anything created should we
just create a new issue that says we
need to create a link back and then
point all these at them and close them
so personally issues don't map onto my
priority matrix at all but if I want it
okay well we'll just need this one open
it's fine we can have some open issues
um slice paths this belongs in the path
back that needs to get written so I
guess that also stays open until that
gets written me but I was thinking this
can definitely get closed out this is an
action item issue from January selector
exploration this needs to get turned
into a design 3.94 needs to go into the
Dino Street it's done yeah so this was
into the dam these Chinese three it's
just there for yeah
our very purpose still needs to happen
and the people that need to know about
it right there
except for maybe James but all I don't
want to put that on this Cuba's yet
until you suspect looking protocol with
batching on top of them this can also go
into the explore patience thing yeah it
was a very poisonous if just you just
got to be too far thing like the IP LD
ITF name one
what's the like it still needs to happen
the people that are on it are the right
people I might add James Stewart later
but that's all I had all that once them
I got mmm it we're on 101 101 101 don't
wanna go into design history 101 needs
to go into the industry that's amore I'm
putting I'm playing in poker I'm putting
your name against these design history
archiving things because is that right
because you thought yes yeah yeah I will
I will do the ER cutting stuff because
yeah I have to script and then yeah yeah
no go back more I Anna registration this
is a different one though this is the
mime type yeah I'm gonna leave that for
now don't want to find this but we do
need to have the discussion but I don't
I don't feel confident having yet
because I don't think that the IDI Anna
is gonna let us just say application
slash I feel D belongs to us
actually can we so what does just gonna
sign it's usually used for like
encodings and stuff like that but do
where is every single one of those
registry anyway
I question thing thumb in the notes say
that Michael needs to add some comments
and questions - OH - did this can handle
poker did this I think this one can
clothes because the sin picked us on
completely different thing now so yeah
okay
recursive select your types this won't
you what was the load
oh yeah just call right yeah yeah just
what was this about
but I guess brief address today I just
closed it and if we haven't it wasn't
important nested recursive traversal
saying yeah close it yeah okay
interesting to see like how much time I
spend on the specs repo without
remembering it like all my work is gone
like what what did I do but it's all in
this repository I think this is hold on
I wrote this back then it was a while
ago so I forgot
no we didn't let it okay fine so it to
you Michael wasn't yeah I feel like a
very holistic meta thing that I'm
learning from this is we need to proceed
directly to pr's and we have these
things and not do issues because if we
rent the issue first we never do the
freaking PR oh yeah a lot of dislike it
before we actually had that design
history stuff so we just didn't we
didn't have that outlet this should get
rolled into the design history yeah this
is like a big long discussion about yeah
okay yeah that needs to get a little bit
that was what was that that was number
one eighteen and should like it is this
one is one that brought it do you want
to archive that one like in there like
proper way out there to scrub it in or
type it somehow and just dude how you
doing the other ones okay how much we
want it just like bulk dump things I've
been to text versus like have a short
file that tries to Risa Marie's I'm just
links to the github content I mean poker
if you're if you're doing all these with
the script do you just want to have one
PR that has like you know pictures all
of the issues that it wrote them mmm
very good like whatever like yeah so
basically I was also busy I was thinking
about if we should perhaps I ride like
at least the top like a summary and then
our timing protects but still I came in
the comments because like sometimes like
I think like especially like the the the
PR before from from God had a huge
discussion on also the graphs and stuff
really their discussions also
interesting it's not about like the
thinking about things that take listing
so I might yeah right some yeah sure
summary but then they would be visual
PRS because yeah and it will also take
some time so probably then just yeah did
too much work I think if you make sure I
want to do it yeah yeah I think like the
the point here is to kind of clear some
of this out to the big game Suzanne PRS
are more accurate reflection of what
we're talking about now and I mean we've
had that discussion sitting there
forever it can fit in a markdown file
instead and we don't really need to put
like a lot of extra stuff around it um I
love design rules from Eric what do you
think that are for this so close maybe
put a comment on the end about let's say
that this is the foundations document
now and then I'll close it when I make a
new header for that document that says
yeah Northstar
okay
and just thank you what I will do I will
just dump the stuff into the history and
then if someone wants to write a summary
can voice to appear on it it sounds like
oh that's a good one
this requires like in like an
ever-expanding
set to be helped by every session but uh
yeah I mean this needs to go into design
history yeah that's also design isn't it
yes it's not it's just a directory in
aspects Reaper okay
this definitely goes into that exchange
ice to fill her stuffs we still need to
resolve it all but yeah I don't know if
we're gonna get anywhere in that
discussion and I actually want to
rewrite like this is a perfect example
of one of those ones where I want to
park the old one and then write another
one
completely scratch clean he wants it's
one archived yeah I think we've learned
a few things and I'd like to write
something like that issue again but with
like a couple more heading but
disambiguate a couple more things like I
think we've also surfaced a lot of new
things that we want to tackle with it
thankfully it's not even in there like
we're just talking about the key the non
string keys everything okay and this is
Q&A and we can close it and say question
answered
ciao answered there we go reconciling
terminology this is like an issue like I
don't think that we but the resolution
to this would be that we all agree what
the words mean and have the same idea
which we don't have but I do think I do
think that we are closer than we were
but this should probably go into a
design doc actually here's the thing
with this archiving is though is that
this this is an outstanding thing that
we are currently hashing out between us
but for others coming along to this
discussion if we archive this then it's
like well it's not resolved it's over
there but misdoing still active it's
kind of nice to have this thing as
flagged as an active thing that we're
working on
do that oh sorry I think it I think it
would be if the if reading this and not
knowing a lot about the project gave you
a good indicator but these things that
and I don't know that it does that I
haven't read it that way before then we
have way we have nothing if we close
this my own nothing deflected because
you come along and you'll see us all
using different words and talking
slightly away from the event the same
thing well frankly like like no new work
is really going into composites this
quarter so like we don't really need I
don't think we need to worry that much
about people needing to know what
composites are given that it's sort of
on pause well their stuff finishes we
are actively working on advanced layout
then this is not the right place to
figure out what that means
I don't think nowhere and multi-part
collections like have a better document
to explain that and but I see but I
think it shouldn't be our cup so if we
close it it should me archive because
like it's not like so for me the
archives for things that basically
people spend a lot of time thinking
about things and we decided not to
pursue two different now and then we
might be recommend in in the past it's
one time I'm having discussion and it's
not like it's a like it's a proposal or
something it's just like agree yeah yeah
yeah and I think that like we we got
closer but we're not there but we don't
we don't need to get there right now we
can reopen this and recontextualize it
in the future in order to keep it so
it's closed called poker they do others
degree because it doesn't seem so just
so there was a she number 140 which was
that question that person showed up with
and they had questions about this gamers
yeah and just pointing to stuff that's
active is really hard cuz I the last
comment is mine in there and I was
trying to like active things that are
ongoing but while doing that it made me
realize this we've just got we've got so
many things in the air that are not very
visible and we don't have ways of saying
these are the things that we
currently trying to grapple with and
what we're doing right now is archiving
a lot of that stuff just packing it away
but it doesn't actually make it go away
it's still there and then when somebody
shows up with questions I'm out we're
discussing that but how do they know how
would they know without asking us and
then how can we describe it without
writing it all out from scratch I mean
one of the problems with all these diss
open documents though is that like the
context from one just flows into the
next one naturally because it's all the
same people commenting in it so none of
them make very good point like
particulars places for you to get that
information either right and and and to
some extent like I would actually
appreciate an issue just saying like I
don't know anything about this this is
like this is my question and like this
is my use case like that's actually much
more useful to our project right now
than one than them trying to come in the
document to be very confused about the
state of all no and yeah I get that I
just thinking about flagging things that
are currently in the air and we're
currently unflagging them by closing all
the issues and we have no way of
indicating you know yep that's something
that's over here that we're eating away
this is why I'm advocating so much for
just using plain old dates and the file
names and the stuff that we do put in
that exploration in history area because
it's very difficult for any human to
like always reliably preemptive strike
style maintain indexes about what isn't
is not definitely happening right now
but the date is a pretty good proxy for
that actually and it's much easier so
the date that something was last
modified is visible right next to it and
github at least so I'm not worried about
more representative than the date that
it was created if the last date somebody
modified it I would agree now I wouldn't
agree because say it could be just like
in this discussions for years and it's
like I think we're time to two different
kinds of documents so InDesign history
dates are fine
um because those don't actually even get
modified but in the like design /
experimental feature - a that we're
doing those actually do get updated when
people are actively working on them well
I think having those things is actually
dubious in the first place but that's
okay so before you move on from that
I just want to tangent here for second
with there's nowhere to move - so we're
on that just showing what you're showing
there on your screen
the back to another discussion we were
having about Matt key kinds well now the
schemas allows for alternative key types
and you can see it there in the advanced
layout thing we you know the curly
braces and the string to string thing if
we're saying that Matt's can only have
string keys then maybe schemas shouldn't
allow for flexible
key type no no well that's that's the
the thing that therapist is talking
about where if you if you have a string
representation of that then you can so
if your if your type so you can use
another type in there that has a string
representation like a joint or something
okay
yeah so it does accept other types they
just have to be coerced able in the
strings essentially so we think we
should document that in yeah yeah yep
yeah that should to get documented when
this change happens as well I think we
know those aren't even connected that
that can happen complete separate them I
don't know why I connected this issue so
so you Eric and Michael you feel pretty
strongly this is the way to go
hey yeah I mean so I don't see the
because since you're literally saying
the same thing twice I don't see why and
and you're not allowed to do them
separately I don't see the point
why and if we want to and if we want to
open up the possibility of being amusing
advanced type as two different types
then that this would be the easiest way
to do it okay first of all tactical
point we've gone through our whole
backlog that's amazing yeah well I want
to do item yeah yeah
do we want to dig any further tonight or
should we like spend some holy crap
that's a to-do list I just looked at my
other screen and yeah just I just
recreate what we just like I'm still
concerned about the previous easy
because they were just closed because
like like the whole like naming
composites for the error discussion
because the problem is I know that like
tomorrow Michael will talk about
composites again and everything will be
everyone will be confused so like I
think if you call composites right I but
I we're not working on composites with
quarter I probably won't say composites
tomorrow saying that though is that I
don't think we're even quite sure what
that meet what we're not working on okay
I'm gonna go and write a spec for
University to and I feel B schema then
I'm gonna have to write some tools to
turn that I feel the schema into an API
and then I'll also probably end up
writing some API for defining in
advanced layout not totally schemas and
that will give us a much more concrete
thing to look at and say like okay here
is like in the advanced layout
implementation in JavaScript and here is
a composite in description of JavaScript
what is the difference between these two
things
and it we can have a much more informed
discussion from that point on and it's
not important for us to resolve this
thread that's until you know before that
work is done so we can just kind of
defer it and then we'll have a better
thing to talk about and more knowledge
in general and I think I'll even have
much better language to describe it okay
and can you then post a comment on the
toast issue saying this so that it's
clear you should put it in the notes and
okay thanks okay cool
all right good work everybody especially
all the work that everybody just signed
up to do so like just like for the time
frame I think it's not urgent to do this
because like this will take a while and
I have like a conference up coming in so
I just don't want to spend as much time
on like organizing things yeah I never
saw you like it's not like I don't want
a 13-month but just like it won't happen
to me more always that's fine
probably not to remind tomorrow just
because is like if I don't I'll never do
them but yeah it's whatever timeline is
fine this is not this isn't these have
been here for a long time they can sit
for another two weeks
cool
except rods rods you have to close out
that next issue that Pierre has been
open to it also just that the pr's in
general I think we can we can get very
close to kind of inbox zero on the PRS
that the issues are good hard cool okay
yeah and then from there I think
one thing that I'm getting from this
conversation is that we don't have a
very clear separation between what is
being used for external messaging versus
like internal collaboration between
people that are really active because
we're just pointing everybody is
especially part right now because
there's nothing else so I may I may like
get a little more aggressive about
getting some more stuff into that book
repo and then at least using that book
repo as a place to log issues for things
that we want to write better
documentation for external consumers
about and even just the signal when
we're ready to write something up for
external consumption rather than just
like we're done iterating on is
literally no there's a book repo repos I
created oh yeah I think only is there no
way to subscribe to that if you're not
an element like I also think I also
haven't heard of it before
so I also didn't get any notifications
so did you get the I plugged it into the
through this repository so is there a
way to have repos automatically get a
group added to them somewhere another
thing well I think you have to add the
group mmm Danny really I guess okay
I'm just asking if we're done because
I'm running out of Barry so I then or
like I've 13 minutes to go and I'm
spinning so this is great everybody
think thank you for your time we made a
lot of progress talk again soon goodbye
everyone